What's the biggest misadventure standing about you? Whenever you hear about somebody who's got, you know, ridiculous amounts of money, their values are different than your values. You should be concerned about their agenda. What's the obvious? I'll be sad as my brain gets less capable. That disappoints me. Have you won, behavior, or you're an adult? Reading a lot, being a student, that's a big part of my success. Richest and most powerful men in the world. Bill Gates has unleashed a technological revolution That has changed our law. Bill Gates are 25 and Bill Gates are 17. Any change that you feel personally? In my 20s, being a maniac was the right thing. My competitors would say, oh no, you work too hard. And I'd say, yes, I do. If you're in a race, you're 20s when you have no wife and no children, that's the time to do it. If you get an opportunity to invite three Indians for dinner, who would that be? There was a mathematician, Ramanushan, I would have loved to have met him. Why do you think India is becoming a global talent capital for the world? We'd hire people from India and bring them to the United States. Both the United States and India were kind of mad at us because we were taking the smart people and moving them. In India, a lot of kids also fight with their parents on inheritance. Have your kids ever spoken to you? Before we start today's episode, all I want to say is thank you. To each and every one of you, I'm really grateful that we were able to sit down with one of the most influential men in the world, the Bill Gates. I have been this young boy who always used to hear stories about this man, about the kind of money he has made, the kind of life he's impacting, the kind of things he's building through Microsoft. From there to be sitting in front of him, it was surreal. When I started the conversation, you could see it on my face that I was really nervous, really scared. I didn't know what to talk about but as we went in the conversation the podcaster in me took over and we spoke about his fears his Misunderstandings the mission and what is he doing today? Today, I want you to see this episode from the lens of a 20-year-old sitting with Bill Gates and figuring out what goes on in his brain This episode is truly special because I could have never thought that Bill Gates will be on our podcast this soon in our journey I always had a belief that we will be able to sit down with the smartest people around the world. But it'll happen soon. I can't believe this right now. I just want you to enjoy this episode the way I did. I want you to sink in that this is happening because it's not drinking in with me. And I just want to tell you that there are more episodes coming. So keep supporting us and hit the subscribe button right now. Welcome on Figuring Out Sir. I'll tell you a little story. So during the pandemic, me and my sister, we were watching the Netflix documentary inside Bill's brain. And halfway through it, I told my sister that, hey, you know what? Like one day I'll sit with Bill Gates and I'll directly speak to him and get inside his brain. And she's random and she was laughing. So this one's for you. You did it? Yeah. So it's an opportunity. I don't know how it just came out of my mouth than it's happening today. So thank you so much for doing this. Well, you've come to India quite often. Tell me something that you've observed about India, which a lot of people don't know about. Well, people probably, you know, because they're here all the time, you know, they probably don't recognize how much things have changed. And if you go away and come back and you see, wow, you know, the level of entrepreneurship and the, you know, the amount of innovation that's actually taking place here. It's pretty fantastic. And for the foundation we've been here originally because a lot of the health challenges were here and we still care a lot about that. But now a lot of our invention is being done here. Whether it's vaccines, obviously we have some incredible partnerships, but it's broadening to better seeds, better diagnostics, the ways that we can use AI for health or education. So the innovation ecosystem is really exploded and that's going to be great for India. It's going to be great for the world. So when you meet other leaders around the world or when you meet your billionaire friends, what's the first thing you tell them about India? Is it the same thing that you just told me? Yeah, it's, you know, we've had such a great experience in our work in India. You know, I encourage people to come and tap into the great things going on. Is there anything specific you'd like? Well, my connection with India goes all the way back to the Microsoft days. When we at first would hire people from India and bring them to the United States. And both the United States and India were kind of mad at us because we were taking the smart people and moving them. And then they came back here to India and created the Microsoft India work, which has been absolutely fantastic. Up until the year 2000, I mainly knew the tech scene. A lot of Bangalore, Hyderabad, seeing the country more broadly, that's in my foundation work. So, Bihar, UP, seeing where we could partner and help with things. I still want to take more vacation here. I've done it a little bit but there's a lot of great places in India that I haven't been to. Talking about Microsoft and taking people from here to US, people like Satir Adela, Sundar Pichai, there have been incredible CEOs around the world. Why do you think India is becoming a global talent capital for the world? Do you think anything special here which is out there? Well, you know, 20% of the world's people live here in India and India's had a particular emphasis on engineering software and turned out a lot of top people. When you get people like Sundar Satya who are both great at engineering and at management, that's a magic combination. These companies are looking anywhere in the world to find that mix. and say India is getting about its fair share of those top leadership positions. It partly comes from having great universities, not just the IITs, but starting with them, that's using the incredible talent that's here. So talking about Indian talent, you do a lot of philanthropy work here and you've met a lot of talented people here, a lot of rich people here as well. Do you and you believe that all the money that rich people have or like people who have made wealth for themselves, they should use it for charity work, they should pledge it. In India, there's a usually a lot of people believe that as parents is their duty to save everything for their kids, for the inheritance, right? Like the kids will get everything. What do you think is the right mindset? Using all the money for pledging and giving it back to the society or giving it to the children? Well, I think, you know, everybody gets to decide on that. In my case, my kids got a great upbringing in education, but less than 1% of the total wealth because I decided it wouldn't be a favor to them. It's not a dynasty. I'm not asking them to run Microsoft. I want to give them a chance to have their own earnings and success be significant and not overshadowed by the incredible luck and good fortune I had. And different families see that differently. I think the people who've made fortunes from technology are less dynastic And you know, so they they'll even you know, take their capital and give a lot of that away You can have the view of giving away your capital or just giving away your earnings And you know, of course, I love all philanthropy But the tech sector is the probably the most aggressive about about giving most of it away. Now, the other sectors, you have not seen that in any other kind of industry where people try to give more. Not to the same degree. It tends to be giving more of the giving some portion of the profit as opposed to the actual base capital. In India, a lot of kids also fight there with their parents on the inheritance. Have your kids ever spoken to you and be like, hey, why are you not giving us everything or anything? Has it ever happened? You know, you don't want your kids to ever be confused about your support for them and your love for them And so I do think explaining early on your philosophy You know that you're gonna treat them all equally And that you're gonna get them incredible opportunities But that you know the highest calling for these resources is to go back to the neediest through the foundation and you know, they've seen the success of the foundation I hope they're very proud of the foundation. And so, you know, I've seen cases where kids actually tell their parents to be more philanthropic. You know, I think the younger generation sometimes actually is pushing against this idea of, you know, the wealth just being passed down mostly. And so, you know, every family is a bit different. I have last question on India and then we'll get to the foundation work and try to understand you as well. If you get an opportunity to invite three Indians for dinner, dead or alive, who would that? Well, I get to spend time with some incredible people in India. I get time with the Prime Minister and understand his vision and how we fit into that. This 2047 thing that everything is lining up to try to achieve that. I get to meet, there was a great scientist Raj Ban who created the department of biotechnology. There was a mathematician, Ramanushan, who I would have loved to have met him because he was almost mysterious how he was so genius at what he was able to do. I got to work with Rotten Tata. I'm getting to work with all of the amazing philanthropists and a lot of the innovators here. I get to see small companies. Early on, I just went through some of these companies using AI and health. Some profit, poor profit, a few non-profit. We had a great 25 year celebration and this great sit-car artist came and that was a pretty special thing. So it'd be hard for me to pick. There's so many incredible talents. You can't pick three. I think I defend some people. by not including them. You were talking about small companies. If you were to start something from zero in India today, where would you put most of your time and what the first step you'll take? Well, you'd mostly start a company because you think you enjoy working on something and you think you have a world-class understanding of a unique contribution. For me, that was software. For this day and age, if you think you understand fusion, that's great. you're successful, which that's risky. You could really improve the world. AI is sort of today's equivalent of what I did when I was young to see, wow, the possibilities are unlimited. And so I'd probably be doing one of these new AI companies if I was starting out today. Do you still feel there's a lot of opportunities in AI to build something as significant as what do you have big or it's pretty late? Well, you know, the big companies are putting a lot of money into it. And the number of companies globally is huge. I mean, many people didn't even know these Chinese companies who are doing all this work and yet, you know, some of the best results over the last six months have come from three or four of the models there. So it's not when I got going in computing, it was a very small set of people and, you know, people thought we were crazy that we set a computer on every desk and a computer in every home. And that just seemed strange to people because they couldn't see the, they didn't get software and they didn't get the exponential improvement of the chips was making computing, you know, basically free. So it's, I'd say it's tougher to get out in front. There will be new companies. I mean, NVIDIA is almost as valuable as Apple and Microsoft. And yet, they came into prominence only really in the last five or six years, although they're about 15 years old. So there are opportunities and there will be some new companies that use AI to achieve unbelievable success. But it'll be two or three out of 10,000. And would I be able to do do that again? Hard to say. You talked about like when you started, a lot of people thought that, oh, what are you doing? This is some random thing these guys are trying to do. They may be stupid. They may be thinking too big, whatever. And over the time, every time you do something big, usually people do not understand you or anyone, like not just you, like whoever wants to start something new and big in today's world or as of today. What's the biggest misunderstanding about you? What do you think? What do people misunderstand about billions. Well, whenever you hear about somebody who's got some degree of power or ridiculous amounts of money, you might think they have grand schemes and there's almost a sense that their values are different than your values and that you should be concerned about their agenda. Hopefully for the people who actually do know me and how much I love foundation work and how I work with my friends or my kids. It's very different from the people who just think, oh wow, he's one of these guys who's pushing levers and has too much money and too much authority. So that people misunderstand about you and tell you what misunderstandings, have you made any major mistake that people don't know about? Well, some of my mistakes are very public. I mean, Microsoft, we had lots of products that didn't work. We did a phone operating system and now Android took that position. So I certainly messed that up in a huge way. For the foundation, we often have multiple plans. We wanted to have an HIV vaccine. We don't have that yet. We're working on a very cheap toilet, but it's still too expensive. So that's taking a lot longer. We don't have polio eradication done I'm still very committed to that but it's it's taking a lot longer Then then we thought it would do talking about foundation work You've impacted millions of life and you spend a lot in making people's life better What's your biggest challenge today because somebody on somebody who's watching this might think that at your level with so much power, influence, money, you can actually fix a lot of problems. What do you think is your problem? What challenges do you see? Well, I love the scientific challenges. I mean, we still don't fully understand malnutrition. We have some tools to reduce it. It's super exciting. But I'm really pushing our research workers hard that, okay, we need to know more about that. I do think getting money to help the very poorest countries, a lot of which are in Africa. Asia, many of the countries are having good economic growth and in Africa has a lot of unique governance or instability or disease challenges. And so telling people they should help out other humans even though they're far away and speak a different language. It's not as easy as I thought it would be. You know, right now some of the rich countries, including my country, are cutting their aid budgets. And I'm very disappointed that, you know, to me, that's not, you know, the golden rule of treating people like you'd like to be treated. What do you think all the people who are watching this, including me, of young people should do so that we could convince more people to help other people? Well, when you're young, if you're here in India, you can probably travel some modest distance an hour to and see people who don't have the same opportunities you do. They're smart, but their school's not good or they get some health problem and they're not able to access things. I would say in India, programs like the Ask Prishinal district program, India does talk openly about the places that are the worst off. And that's pretty impressive. Even issues like sanitation that governments, most governments, you wouldn't catch them talking about toilets. This country took on a pretty aggressive plan and made a lot of progress on that. So you can go out and see people and develop empathy without going too far. And you've spent hours and hours and days in this country. You spend millions on vaccines and trying to take care of healthcare challenges. What's one problem you feel that money cannot fix? Hmm. You know, there's a lot of talk about obesity. And, you know, when I saw the prime minister, he was talking about various yoga type things that, you know, people would adopt those. But it's been hard. You know, not many countries have gotten the behavior change. Yeah. You know, maybe India can pioneer some approaches there. But, you know, frankly, and I'll sound like a technologist, the most promising thing is actually, you know, a drug, a class of drugs called these GLP-1 drugs that, you know, are going to go off patent and become cheap. And, you know, so I always like, you know, I'm a little overpocs on a scientific solution. So maybe a combination of that behavior change and the new tools. But behavior change is hard. We haven't succeeded in that as much as we'd like to. Tell me one behavior you all should adopt. Well, you know, the behavior that's helped me is basically being a student all the time, wanting to learn things and being pretty brutal with myself of, do I really understand, you know, what's going on? You know, do I understand some AI thing or or some disease thing. And, you know, fortunately, I can meet with people who in many cases can help me understand and then meet with knowledge. If you're careful about building your knowledge, it all kind of connects together. But, you know, reading a lot, being a student, you know, having people who can teach me, that's been not only fun for me, but also a big part of my success. So all of the people who are watching this actually feels pretty validated at this point. I had good. Because this whole podcast is about learning from really, really incredible people like you. And we have so many questions that we just keep asking to learn more, to learn more, to get inside brain. So thanks for validation. Perfect. What's fascinating for me this time in your journey, like this time you visit to India, the Full Gates Foundation board is yours, right? And that's pretty unique and they get to experience India. What do you think? What are your priorities with regards to this nation? Why the whole board is here? What do you guys are trying to figure out? What are the things that you're doing? Well as much progress as we've been part of achieving here in India, there's still a lot to do. You know, the child-to-death rate is about a third of what it was, but it's still almost three times higher than in a rich country. So we you know, we should all want to close that gap. That's equity. I mentioned malnutrition. The country is very serious about that, and yet it means that your brain never develops. Sadly, if whatever dietary or disease things affect you during pregnancy in your first year, even if later you get a fantastic diet, your brain and your physical capabilities, they don't adjust. You're sort of permanently affected. We're working with some great scientists here. We have a lot of the tools of biology have gotten a lot better. I do think in the next decade, we'll totally get to the bottom of that. I'm thrilled to do that. A lot of the scientists we partner with, including some at ICMR, but lots of and solutions around the country, they're also committed to that. So you work here a lot and with the foundation you work around the world, a lot of things. And because of all of this passion and data and this intention to try to help people, you've been pretty accurate in trying to understand trends way before people, like normal people. Let's say you're pretty accurate in so many things, in predicting so many epidemics as well. thing that you know which we don't. How do you spot these things way faster? Well, the biggest change agent in my lifetime has been the miracle of digital. Now, moving into the AI phase of that digital revolution. So, the fact that as a young person, I was programming at age 13 and by 18 I had my thousands of hours of really strong feedback about getting better and being pushed. It's a really lucky thing to have such a familiarity with the thing that's going to change the world. I wrote a book called The Road Ahead a long time ago that talked about the internet and digital money and video conferencing. And then when I moved into the foundation work, the health work, people in that community understand pandemics. And so my saying, hey, there's a big risk and the thing that's going to kill 10 million additional people is likely to be a pandemic. That's commonplace knowledge if you're in the global health community. It's a very small community. But I was just somebody who was listened to, stating this. And sadly, most of the people who listened to that prediction, listened to it after it came true, then what my goal was was people to hear that and actually stop it from happening. That's usually the case. People listen to pieces, golden advice pieces and pieces of nuggets way after the time has been passed. Because of this, do you fear anything today? I definitely hope that we shape AI in a positive way. It's such a big impact on being smarter than humans, that it will change our world a lot. And it's definitely new territory. So I have a list of about five things, AI shaping AI properly is at the top of that list, but avoiding the next pandemic, avoiding nuclear war, Fire, terrorism, climate change, it's only about five or six things that we need to minimize the chance of and use our additional wealth and insights against those things. Do you have any personal fear? What's your biggest fear? It's not like I'm afraid of heights or planes or fire or anything like that. I hope I'll be sad as my brain gets less capable, which as I turned 70 this year, You know, I'd be lucky to have 20 years of you know being able to learn You know, maybe I'll get lucky and get a little bit more But you know that disappoints me because I've had such a amazing time learning Things and I used to think of old people is not you know contributing all that much and now I've had to change my mind How important old people are? Do you feel different? I don't I don't at all You know, probably if I took an IQ test, I would do a little bit worse than when I was 25. But, you know, I've accumulated enough knowledge, you know, so wisdom, you know, can compensate a little bit for a slight reduction in intelligence. And I do think it's like a muscle that if you're pushing yourself to think and learn that, you know, you stay, it really helps your capabilities a lot. But yeah, I have a fear that you know, I eventually I'll lose and I won't want to pick up the 500 page book I'll look at it go. Are you kidding? I'm done with that So with age you have not felt any changes in your brain Wow, no, I don't think so You know whenever you can't remember something you're like, oh no now But you know, so maybe a tiny bit of that But then you know, it's just a little bit because you're you're looking for it, you know when I was in my 20s if I remember something So what? Is there any change you feel because it's a bill gates or 25 and bill gates of 70 Is there any change that you feel personally? Well in my 20s I was I chose to focus on one topic from you know age 20 to about 31 or 2 I told myself, hey, I love biology and math and all these things, but I want to be the person who's advancing software faster than anyone else. So I really did narrow my focus and I didn't take much time off and I could stay in the office 72 hours and then crash. So my adrenaline was really unique. my understanding of how to manage people other than myself wasn't that good. I look back and I've learned a lot since then but just my stamina and focus for that period of my life being kind of a maniac was the right thing. My competitors would say, oh no, you work too hard and I'd say, yes, I do. That's a great advice for every young person who's watching. Well, maniac in your 20s. It's not it's not for everyone. But if you're if you're in a race and you know the a little bit moving a little bit faster to make a difference then yes your your 20s when you have no wife and no children that's the time to do it. That's the time to be a little maniac about certain things. You also just mentioned that you love learning which obviously the world knows But during this conversation also you just talked about it a little bit again again. What are you currently learning or what do you want to learn now? Well, there's a lot going on. AI just staying on top of that is, I very much enjoyed that and I get to sit and talk with the top people at OpenAI and I get to play around with things. But then when you think, okay, now about what about AI applied to mental health care? there. Isn't that one of the most exciting things? Because we can never have enough therapists. And even people who aren't suffering massively, maybe we could help even people with mild symptoms. So what does this AI companion look like? And how can that help us? My friend Reid Hoffman just wrote a book called Super Agency that he's got a really good chapter about this. So I'm pushing myself to try and understand what can we do there and meet the people who are pushing the boundaries because I see such potential. What would you advise young people to start learning today and from where? AI itself? If you have a mathematical mind, not everyone should learn AI. These tools are going to be available to everyone. You ought to be a user of AI, but the underlying stuff, that's a pretty narrow set of people who will have an opportunity to push on a new training method. Even people who grew up with software, some of them don't really get this because it's a bit more mathematical than it is just a programming type thing. It says to user that, Okay, if you like doing creative work, yes. AI is going to change the world and AI hopefully can help you do things faster and better. So my prescription would be yes to use it for the areas that you're excited about. Any area that you're excited about, learn from, learn about that and try to make a bridge between AI and that industry. Right. I mean, the internet has so much educational material on it. So between all that material and then an AI that can help take long documents and you can have a dialogue with it, you could do it in text or you can now do these generate podcasts about things. It's a great time to be a learner. When I was young, I had to go to the library and read the encyclopedia alphabetically, no multimedia. This is a paradise. Yeah. Thanks to you guys. The digital world. Yeah, absolutely. You made it easy for us. We don't know the world, what it looked like to go to a library and read about something. We get fidgety if you don't get an answer in three seconds. We have last two questions for you. One is, in your philanthropy work with the foundation, how is India contributing to your global strategies? Well, more and more of the innovation is being done in India. India's, you know, got a depth of talent and a desire for frugal solutions. And so even though the rich world, you ask Europe, you know, we have a lot of talent. Some basic science thing like immunology, a lot of the new insights will keep coming from those institutions. But when it comes to actually putting the pieces together, including something like AI for healthcare, I was just meeting with a number of companies working on various pieces of that in India. We need better seeds and we need better weather advice for farmers. So although we're going to continue to do a lot of implementation here in India, help get things rolled out, more and more of our product research work will be done here, both because it benefits India. But we're also very good at saving Indian children, really working well. Our foundation has a lot of presence in Africa. So even take the classic example where India was totally the leader on this digital public infrastructure, the digital money and identity ad bar thing, funding the applicants to come here and learn for their budgets and helping to create the open-source software that makes it easy for them. That's now a huge agenda item, which is kind of a south-south thing with a little bit of facilitation from us. Got it. And here's the last question. If you had, if the world had to write one sentence next to the name Bill Gates, what would you want them to write? I don't do my work based on some epitaph. Ideally, they'd say that, wow, there were these diseases around polio and malaria and malnutrition. Now we don't have to think about that, partly because he championed putting more great thinking and resources into ending those problems. I hope people look at the word polio and go, what was that? When you read Dick novels and they talked about somebody had consumptions like what is that? Well that's actually TB so we still not in the UK we don't have much but we still do they just change the world so you know hopefully some problems that we can actually finish and then move on. Which problem do you think we'll be finishing? Well, polio, you know, I expect even in five years, and that'll give us the credibility to go after things like malaria and measles. That's amazing. No, it is. It's going to be fun. It's amazing. In five years, we can make that a reality. It's going to be incredible for the humankind. It's, wow. Yeah, it's only happened only once. Smallpox was eliminated back in 1980. So, you know, polio, serious disease, it's going to be the second. I really truly wish that it happens faster than what we just talked about. And I hope like more than by the time the foundation gets in full fledged in the work, I believe instead of not two, three, there could be one multiple of them so that you lost counting. That should be the goal and I'm expecting for it. Well, thank you so much for doing this, sir. It was pleasure having you. When I was a kid, I was growing up in school. Just you were the richest person in the world. So, before I gave it away. Yeah. So, your name would pop up. So, just to talk about you and how you made your money, was a proud feeling in school and in Friend Circle, everybody would respect you that, oh, you know so much about this person and that. From there, that kid sitting right in front of you and trying to, you know, being in a situation where I'm sitting with you and figuring out what's going on in your brain, it's an incredible opportunity. I'm so grateful. Thank you so much for doing this. It's a dream come true. Great. it again. Yes, we need to. I've got you on camera now. Thank you. Thank you. I'm definitely a little nervous because it's a big, big, big one. I'm very nervous. Very good. How are you? Pleasure meeting you. So please help me. Yes. I'm pretty nervous at this point. So, bear with me. Good, good. I had 500,000 things to talk to you and now I'm speechless. I like there's nothing in there. Thank you so much for watching this episode till the end. Please let us know in the comments who are the next guests that you want to see on this show. Because we are determined to get the best of the best minds from the world and provide you the maximum value. I'll see you next time until then. Keep figuring out. out at. Don't forget to share this episode with at least one person whose life-message positive change I have.